System updates for specified instances and developer docs (#480)
NEAR-DevHub/neardevhub-treasury-dashboard: docs/developer/system-updates.md

# System Updates: Publishing and Targeting Updates

## Where to Add Updates

All system updates are defined in a single shared UpdateRegistry widget file. To publish or modify updates, edit the following file:

[instances/widgets.treasury-factory.near/widget/pages/settings/system-updates/UpdateRegistry.jsx](../../instances/widgets.treasury-factory.near/widget/pages/settings/system-updates/UpdateRegistry.jsx)

> **Note:** All instances share this UpdateRegistry file. Updates published here will be visible to all instances unless using the `instances` property for targeting specific instances as described below.

The system update functionality allows developers to publish updates that has to be applied and approved manually by treasury administrators (such as contract upgrades, policy changes, or instance app widget changes) to specific treasury instances or to all. This is managed through the `UpdateRegistry` widget and can be tested or previewed using the Playwright test suite.

## How Updates Are Defined

Updates are defined as JavaScript objects in the `UpdateRegistry` widget. Each update record can include the following fields:

> - `id` (number): Unique identifier for the update.

Reviewer: Can it be any number? Is it actually used anywhere? Do we want to assign values in a numerical order?

Author: Yes we would assign these in numerical order. Updated the docs.

- `createdDate` (string): Date of the update in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
- `version` (string): Version or label for the update (optional).
- `type` (string): Type/category of the update (e.g., "DAO contract").
- `summary` (string): Short summary of the update.
- `details` (string): Detailed description (optional).
- `instances` (array of strings): (Optional) List of instance account IDs that should receive this update. If omitted, the update is shown to all instances.

> - `votingRequired` (boolean): Whether a vote is required for this update.
> 

Reviewer: I think we should change it a bit, because here vote means the dao vote right? and it will be a dao configuration vote (approved by admin role)

```suggestion
- `votingRequired` (boolean): Whether a DAO vote by admin is required after the update request is created.
```

```js
{
  id: 2,
  createdDate: "2025-05-02",
  type: "Widgets",
  summary: "Update app.jsx widget",
  details: "This update will synchronize your app widget with the latest version from the reference implementation.",
  votingRequired: false
}
```

### 3. Policy (`"Policy"`)
**Description:** Updates that change the DAO policy, such as voting rules, roles, or permissions. Applying this update creates a proposal to change the policy on the DAO contract.
**Example:**
```js
{
  id: 3,
  createdDate: "2025-05-02",
  type: "Policy",
  summary: "Update DAO policy",
  details: "This update proposes changes to the DAO policy, such as new voting thresholds or role assignments.",
  votingRequired: true
}
```

### 4. DAO contract (`"DAO contract"`)
**Description:** Upgrades the DAO contract itself (e.g., to a new version of Sputnik DAO). May involve deploying new contract code or migrating state.
**Example:**
```js
{
  id: 4,
  createdDate: "2025-05-02",
  type: "DAO contract",
  summary: "Upgrade DAO contract to latest Sputnik version",
  details: "This update will upgrade your DAO contract to the latest supported version.",
  votingRequired: true
}
```

**How to use these types:**

> When creating an update in the UpdateRegistry, set the `type` field to one of the above string values. The system will handle each type appropriately, showing the correct UI and triggering the right actions (such as contract upgrade, widget update, or policy proposal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an update in the UpdateRegistry, set the `type` field to one of the supported string values listed above. If you need a different type, you'll have to add support for it first. The system will handle each type appropriately, showing the correct UI and triggering the right actions (such as contract upgrade, widget update, or policy proposal).
```

### How Update Status is Tracked
- **Local Storage:**
  - The status of which updates have been applied or acknowledged is tracked in your browser's local storage. This means the update banner or notification is specific to your browser and device.
  - If you clear your browser storage or use a different browser/device, you may see update notifications again, even if you have already applied or dismissed them elsewhere.

- **No Central Database:**
  - There is no central server or database that tracks which updates have been applied for each instance or user. The system relies on local checks and the current state of your instance (e.g., contract version, widget version, policy) to determine if an update is still relevant.

### What Users See
- **Update Banner:**
  - When an update is available and has not been marked as finished in your browser, a banner or notification will appear.
  - If you visit the updates page and the system detects that your instance is already up to date (for example, the contract or widget has already been upgraded), the update will disappear from the list and the banner will be removed.

- **Why Updates May Disappear:**

>   - If you see an update notification but then visit the updates page and the update disappears, this means the system has checked your instance and determined that the update is no longer needed (e.g., the upgrade was already applied, possibly by another admin or in another browser).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you see an update notification but then visit the updates page and the update disappears, this means the system has checked your instance and determined that the update is no longer needed (e.g.,  the upgrade may have already been applied—possibly by another admin or from a different browser—or the update request might have already been created and is still pending a vote).
```
